Leon: Week 1 and 2: During the initial weeks we planned features that we would like in include. A well as this we were trying to figure out exactly how we should develop an application for android, should we use Android Studio or potentially try to develop the appliction in Unity. Eventually we decided that developing in Unity using C# for the scripts could be interesting prospect because we were unfamiliar with it and the challenge was nice. [8-10 hours] Time was also spent working on the first assignment. 

Leon: Week 3: During this week Amin and I spent time figuring out how we were going to divide up the work for the project. Although overall we had the intention of both learning everything so that we could be able to assist one another when neccessary. Time this week was spent on creation of the hero character and attempting to make him move. Research was undertaken to learn this. [10-12 hours]

Leon: week 4: This week I spent time making and enemy class and putting movement on this class so that he would go towards the hero. This was done by using a rigidbody, as with the hero movement. The enemy would hit into the hero and then when he did would destroy him. A restart button was also placed into the scene to reset when needed. Along with this a constructor was created as a means of eliminating enemies when the move off screen. This was done as a means of freeing up memory in the game and ensuring the game would not slow down. The triggers in Unity were a bit of a pain to figure out with regards to which method to follow. Many didn't work as intended, therefore I had to find the right one. Eventually this was sorted out. [15 hours]

Leon: Week 5: This week time was allocated to employing a jump function on the press of a button. After creating movement in this way it was time to assign buttons on which these functions could be attached. There was a fair bit of trial and error when it came to finding a jump method that would work in the way that I had intended. Eventually was able to develop a script that allowed the hero to jump by adding y axis velocity to the rigidbody during mouseclick. The amount of jumps would also have to be limited so that the hero could not just stay floating in the scene. Time was also spent creating a spawner that would create enemies and shoot them out in waves, at a set interval.[12-15 hours]

Leon: Week 6: At this point the hero could jump however, he would not be able to jump after this jumps were used. As a result we would need to set some colliders between the hero and the ground object. This required research and test along with a fair bit of testing on mobile as well as within Unity so that logs could be checked and errors could be figured out accordingly. How this was done is via a collider at the heros feet that checks the ground has an appropriate tag and when the hero comes into contact with this, the jump value is reset. There was also collision that needed to be applied with enemies. I also used this week as a means of creating a bullet which appears on mouse click. This required a lot of trialing but eventually got to a satisfactory point and worked well with the game. The bullet was spawned at a point in front of the hero on the x axis and would move at a rate of x along the x axis.[15 hours]

Leon: Week 7: This week we had a conflict when trying to merge our code, as a result a lot of time was dedicated to making everything work adequately. Eventually we ended up working off my initial project and adding the relevant changes in where neccessary. A lot of time was spent trying to move content from one project to the other, however, we were able to implement everything. During this week animations were added to enemies and the hero. As well as this time was allocated to putting in a timer for bullet self destruction because they would fly off into the distance for eternity. Opted for this way as a means of doing something different to the destructor. Double jump was also added this week. [20 hours]

Leon: Week 8: Initially we had the game planned to work with a solid floor that was applied the entire time, however it became clear that the game would be too easy then as the hero could stay in the one spot and shoot. Consequently, we could need to develop a timer that would allow platforms to be spawned at three points along the y axis, off screen. The platforms would then replace the floor we once had. IENumerator and coroutines were used as we did not want the enemies to be spawning on top of one another and killing each other. Consequently a random number would be generated then the enemies would spawn at a random time along the point on the y axis. The same was done for enemies. This was very fiddling and locations for spawn would not work as intended. [15-20 hours]

Leon: Week 9: This week was about polishing the way the game played a little. Collision between bullets and plaforms was fixed. As well as this for smoother play there were other factors tweaked such as enemy and platform heights, jump velocity values, enemy speed etc. A collider was also added to the top of the hero's head so that he would not die when his head hit the bottom of the platform. He would simply return towards the ground at the same velocity that he had jumped. The code was also cleaned up significantly, as a result there is no garbage code left in the git submission. All is commented out also. [15 hours]

Leon: Week 10: This week I spent a lot of time trying to add additional features. Such included the ability to jump on an enemies head and jump or auto jump. As well as this experimented with another type of enemy that would spawn on the platforms and jump when it reached the end of one. For this enemy was not able to initiate a jump on contact with a collider the end of the platforms or if it did it would keep going up into the sky. Probably the most time has been spent trying to add numerous features to the game. Probably would have been better to spend more time focussing on one rather than multiple features. Spent some time working on persistent data as well, which works as intended. The code for unused functions has been removed to clean the project up a bit. Uploaded to git also. Screen has also been locked on horizontal orientation due to the fact that same would not work vertically as the screen would be too narrow. [20 hours]





[Amin]: Week 1 and 2: At week one and two, and I discussed features that we want to implement in our application and also we had researched about choosing programming environment and programming language which we choose Unity and C#. During week one and two, we spent several hours researching and discussing our common project.(8 to 10 hours).

[Amin]: Week 3: At week three I create scrolling background with several elements which shows our application looks like endless running. for this purpose, I add all object and create MoveLeftCycle.cs script which moves all elements from the left side of the scene to the right side with different speeds then repeat this action for an unlimited time. for this script, I had lots of research and for testing, before the final result, I created several prototypes. Leon was a great help during this week and help me to fix bugs for a better result.(6 to 8 hours for researching and implementing).

[Amin]: Week 4: During week 4, I worked on the character and its behavior. I add my character and make an animation for moving character. This part was not related to the programming part but was necessary for our game. Then I add a button for jumping and bending and create bodyControl.cs for scripting these two buttons. Then I create GameControl.cs and add function for boosting time and when time is spent, the character running faster and faster. the next step was creating a current score and high score which show as text input in the top left of the screen. (13 to 15 hours for researching and implementing).

[Amin]: Week 5: During week five, I start to work on enemies and find a solution to how to spawning enemies and about enemies behavior in our game. First I added our enemy's character, then with 3 different scripts, spawn our enemy in random time and different positions and also made collision detection between main character and enemy. Then add the restart button and when a collision occurs and when a user clicks on the restart button, a user can play again. (15 hours for researching, testing, and implementing).

[Amin]: Week 6: During the last five weeks, All main features were implemented by Leon and me. At week six, I create a timer script and then added that timer to my background which related directly to the main camera. Then according to that timer script, I could change background color from light blue to dark blue during the game to simulate day and night. (6 to 8 hours for researching, testing, debugging, and implementing).

[Amin]: Week 7,study week: On week seven, [Leon and I faced with a conflict with combining our code. So we decided to upload the second version of our game besides of our previous version], then during study week and week eight combining both of them to single project and add more features. After fixing our problem I want to create an intro menu and link that to the main scene. (Determined from 10 to 15 hours work on it for troubleshooting and adding more features)
[Amin]: Week 7,study week: Finally, we could troubleshoot our conflicts and make our project as a single project. we changed some features and add other features during week 7 and study week. Now our project looks more professional, including core features. All bugs and conflicts are solved and we going to make our game better and better. Till the end of study week, we have our start menu and we can play with our character. our character can jump and shoot to enemies and kill them. we have a very nice 8 bits environment for background, character, and enemies. Game's enemies spawning randomly and our character have an animation to move and jump and shooting. We have an intro menu with two buttons, one is a toggling panel to show how we can play the game and another button is start button. When a user clicks on the start button, scene automatically switch to the game scene and the player can start to play a game. (15 to 18 hours to troubleshooting, solving conflicts, researching, creating start menu, link scenes, and testing).
[Amin]: Week 8, On this week I working on game sound and write a general script which I can add to my buttons to load sound effect from the audio folder. and also I write a script for background music which is continuable where the game is switching to different pages.Two levels of the random generating platform added to the project which a user can jump on to the second or third level of the platform (12 hours for researching, implementing, and debugging).
[Amin]: Week 8, Till now all major features added to the game and just some bonus features will add to the game which makes the game more interesting.

Week 9, Wednesday 8/May [Henry]
* Good progress. Glad to see it's getting closer. Final stretch now.
* Make sure you go over everything in the Grading Criteria super carefully, to ensure you meet each point.
[Amin]: Weeks 9-10, During weeks 9 and 10 we try to testing game and play for a long time to understand about probable bugs or technical issues and trying to add new bonus features for the final submission.

